Stage Python tutorial (#257)
temporalio/temporal-learning: docs/tutorials/python/sagas/index.md

---
id: sagas
sidebar_position: 4
keywords: [Python, temporal, sdk, tutorial, saga, saga pattern, rollback, compensating actions]
tags: [Python, SDK]
last_update:
  date: 2024-03-06
title: Implement the Saga Pattern in Python Using Temporal
description: Implement the Saga Pattern in Python Using Temporal.
image: /img/temporal-logo-twitter-card.png
---

> In today's interconnected digital landscape, ensuring consistency and reliability in multi-step processes is paramount.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In today's interconnected digital landscape, ensuring consistency and reliability in multi-step processes is key.
```

"paramount" might be kind of an advanced word for ESL people

When dealing with distributed systems, a failure in one service can lead to a domino effect, compromising the entire transaction.

> The Saga pattern offers a solution to this problem by allowing distributed transactions to be broken into smaller, manageable transactions, each with its own compensation logic in case of failure.

Reviewer: Maybe do a brief sentence of what compensation logic is or link to somewhere else?

  - `pip install flask[async]`

Now that you have the necessary prerequisites, you will start by creating the Activities for the booking process.
These Activities form the core tasks your Workflow will perform, interacting with external services and handling potential failures.

## Create Activities

In this step, you will create the booking Activities for cars, hotels, and flights.

These Activities will interact with external services, and you will simulate failures by raising exceptions if a service is unavailable.

First, create a new file named `activities.py`.
This file will contain the definitions of the Activities needed for the booking process.

Import the necessary modules:

```python
import asyncio
from temporalio import activity
from shared import BookVacationInput
```

<!--
The `asyncio` library is used for asynchronous operations.
The `activity` module from the `temporalio` library provides decorators and functions for defining Activities.
The `BookVacationInput` data class will be used to pass input data to the Activities.
-->

Next, define the `book_car`, `book_hotel`, and `book_flight` Activities.

> These Activities interact with external services.

Reviewer: Should we say that we assume they are in this case? Because in the code they aren't

These Activities will log the undo action and return a success message.

```python
@activity.defn
async def undo_book_car(input: BookVacationInput) -> str:
    print(f"Undoing booking of car: {input.book_car_id}")
    return f"Undoing booking of car: {input.book_car_id}"

@activity.defn
async def undo_book_hotel(input: BookVacationInput) -> str:
    print(f"Undoing booking of hotel: {input.book_hotel_id}")
    return f"Undoing booking of hotel: {input.book_hotel_id}"

@activity.defn
async def undo_book_flight(input: BookVacationInput) -> str:
    print(f"Undoing booking of flight: {input.book_flight_id}")
    return f"Undoing booking of flight: {input.book_flight_id}"
```

For this example, if the number of attempts is less than the allowed number of attempts or if the booking ID is invalid, the Activity will raise exceptions to simulate failures, then run the corresponding undo action.

By setting up these compensations, you'll ensure that your system can handle failures gracefully.
Next, you'll focus on defining shared data classes and constants to support your Activities and Workflows.

## Define Shared Data Classes and Constants

> Shared data classes and constants are used to pass data between Activities and Workflows.

Reviewer: Not just across Activities and Workflows though (e.g., client, workers). Maybe: "We will now create some shared data classes and constants that we will use through the application.'

Reviewer 2: I'd like to see the title of this section and the intro paragraph make a stronger case for *why* you are doing this. This feels like something I must do for Temporal, not something that's a good practice.

Think about how you'd explain this to someone at a booth demo. Why are we doing this?

Common mistakes include using mutable data types such as lists or dictionaries, which can cause unexpected behavior.

Also, Task Queues are shared resources that can be used by multiple Workflows and Workers.

Create a new file named `shared.py`:

```python
from dataclasses import dataclass

@dataclass
class BookVacationInput:
    book_user_id: str
    book_car_id: str
    book_hotel_id: str
    book_flight_id: str
    attempts: int

TASK_QUEUE_NAME = "saga-task-queue"
```

> These classes and constants will be used in both Activities, Workflows, and Workers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These classes and constants will be used throughout Activities, Workflows, and Workers.
```
since 'both' is just for two items

> Workflows order and run the execution of Activities.

Reviewer: I don't think you need this line 'Workflows order and run the execution of Activities.' since you say in the line after next 'this workflow coordinates the execution of Activities'..can be kind of redundant?

With your Activities and shared data classes defined, the next step is to create the Workflow.

> This Workflow coordinates the execution of Activities and handle compensations to maintain consistency in case of failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Workflow coordinates the execution of Activities and handles compensations to maintain consistency in case of failures.
```

> ## Create the Workflow Definition

Reviewer 2: Again here, this title feels too "temporal"y. You're defining the business process using a temporal workflow. Try to talk in general developer terms as much as you can.

> 

Reviewer 2: There's something missing here that explains what the workflow is and why we're building it. You jump into the compensation stuff right away.

> In the context of Temporal Workflows, compensation refers to the actions taken to roll back a transaction if an error occurs.

Reviewer: I would move this sentence up to the part where you first mention compensations.

Reviewer 2: I partially agree although I think it's good to have it here too. I wouldn't move it so much as add a section to the introduction explaining how Temporal applications implement Sagas.

Reviewer: Yeah but maybe reword/reemphasize this and move this to the first section when compensations are mentioned, because I think people would benefit from an explanation of what it means :)

Each step in the Workflow has a corresponding compensation step that is executed in reverse order if the Workflow encounters an error.

This ensures that the system is returned to a consistent state, even in the case of partial failures.

Create a new file named `saga_workflows.py`.
This file will define your Workflow, which is responsible for executing your Activities in the correct order and handling compensation if necessary.

First, import the necessary modules:

```python
from datetime import timedelta
from temporalio import workflow
from temporalio.common import RetryPolicy

with workflow.unsafe.imports_passed_through():
    from activities import BookVacationInput, book_car, book_flight, book_hotel
```

> Next, create the `BookWorkflow` class and define the compensation actions, as well as the functions that execute your core logic: `book_car`, `book_hotel`, and `book_flight`.

Reviewer 2: You do an excellent job of explaining how you track the compensating activities after the code. But I think it's worth explaining the general pattern here. You're going to call each activity and keep track of the compensations you need to run if they fail so that you can execute the appropriate ones at the end. I don't think you need more than that because your description after the code that explains how you do it is excellent.

                    start_to_close_timeout=timedelta(seconds=10),
                )

            # Return a message indicating the booking process was cancelled
            return "Voyage cancelled"
```

The `compensations` list keeps track of the actions that need to be undone in case of a failure.
Each compensation action is appended to this list after its corresponding booking action is successfully completed.
The `try` block attempts to execute each booking Activity (`book_car`, `book_hotel`, `book_flight`) in sequence.
Each Activity Execution includes a retry policy to handle transient errors.
If any Activity fails, the `except` block catches the exception and executes the compensation activities in reverse order to undo the previously completed steps.
This ensures the system is returned to a consistent state. The retry policy specifies how to handle retries for each Activity, including non-retryable error types and retry intervals.

Having defined the Workflow, you're now ready to set up the Worker that will execute these Workflows and Activities.

## Define the Worker

The Worker is a crucial component that executes the defined Workflows and Activities.

> Setting up the Worker correctly will ensure that your system can process tasks efficiently and reliably.

Reviewer 2: be mindful here - what is "correctly"? I might omit this sentence.

Create a new file named `run_worker.py`.

Import the necessary modules, including the `asyncio` library, Temporal `Client`, and `Worker`.
You will also import the Activities declared in the `activities.py` file.

```python
import asyncio

from temporalio.client import Client
from temporalio.worker import Worker

from activities import (
    book_car,
    book_flight,
    book_hotel,
    undo_book_car,
    undo_book_flight,
    undo_book_hotel,
)
from saga_workflows import BookWorkflow
from shared import TASK_QUEUE_NAME
```

The Worker is a crucial component that executes the defined Workflows and Activities.

> Setting up the Worker correctly will ensure that your system can process tasks efficiently and reliably.

Reviewer: You already have these two lines on lines 279-280

        client,
        task_queue=TASK_QUEUE_NAME,
        workflows=[BookWorkflow],
        activities=[
            book_car,
            book_hotel,
            book_flight,
            undo_book_car,
            undo_book_hotel,
            undo_book_flight,
        ],
    )
    await worker.run()
    try:
        await interrupt_event.wait()
    finally:
        print("\nShutting down the worker\n")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    loop = asyncio.get_event_loop()
    try:
        loop.run_until_complete(main())
    except KeyboardInterrupt:
        print("\nInterrupt received, shutting down...\n")
        interrupt_event.set()
        loop.run_until_complete(loop.shutdown_asyncgens())
```

The `Client.connect()` line connects to the Temporal server running on `localhost` at port `7233`.
This can be modified to run a Worker on Temporal Cloud.

The `Worker` is initialized with the client, the task queue name, the list of Workflows, and the list of Activities.
This setup ensures the Worker knows which tasks to listen for and execute.
The `await worker.run()` line starts the Worker, making it ready to receive tasks and execute the corresponding Activities and Workflows.

> **Start the Worker**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Delete. Not needed as your sentence after covers this.

To start the Worker, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
python run_worker.py
```

> Once the Worker is running, it will be ready to execute Workflows and Activities as tasks are submitted to the specified task queue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the Worker is running, it will be ready to execute Workflows and Activities as tasks are submitted to the specified Task Queue.
```

Now that the Worker is set up and running, you can set up the Client to initiate the booking process.

> ## Create the Client

Reviewer 2: This is more than a client. This is 
```suggestion
## Create the Flask API to book trips
```

> The Client is responsible for initiating the Workflow and handling the booking process.

Reviewer 2: This intro is talking about Temporal things - talk to developers in general. They've got all this booking logic they built with Temporal Workflows and Activities, and it's able to do the compensations, but it's not useful until you integrate it into some kind of application.

Really drive home the connection between "their world" and "our world."

> Setting up the Client will allow you to interact with the Temporal server and trigger the booking Workflow.

Reviewer 2: Give a general overview of the API you're creating. If it's just a single endpoint that accepts POSt requests, that's fine, but it's worth saying that up front. Give them the roadmap of what they're building before you jump to the code.

Create a new file named `run_workflow.py`:

> First, import the necessary modules, including `uuid`, Flask, and Temporal `Client`.

Reviewer 2: why do I need uuid

```python
import uuid

from flask import Flask, jsonify, request
from temporalio.client import Client

from activities import BookVacationInput
from saga_workflows import BookWorkflow
from shared import TASK_QUEUE_NAME
```

> Initialize the Flask app and set up the dependency injection for the Temporal client.

Reviewer 2: This could use better explanation. Why do I care about dependency injection, and why do I need to do it? 

What thing are we *really* doing here? We're making the Temporal Client available to all of our Flask routes in a way that doesn't create a new instance of the Temporal client on each web request. This lets you share resources.

The dependency injection is just an implementation detail. Keep asking "why am I doing this" and then add the answer to the tutorial. :)

```python
app = Flask(__name__)

async def get_temporal_client():
    return await Client.connect("localhost:7233")
```

> Define a route to handle the booking process.

Reviewer 2: I'd recommend explaining the data that this request will receive.

This route will accept a `POST` request, extract the necessary data from the request, initiate the Workflow, and return the result.

```python
@app.route("/book", methods=["POST"])
async def book_vacation():
    # Extract data from the request

>     user_id = f'{request.json.get("name").replace(" ", "-").lower()}-{str(uuid.uuid4().int)[:6]}'

Reviewer 2: I would extract this to a separate function. Then you can give it a "generate_unique_username" name and explain the logic in a separate code block above this workflow definition. There's a lot going on here, and this logic may change.

    response = {"user_id": user_id, "result": result}
    if result == "Voyage cancelled":
        response["cancelled"] = True
    else:
        result_list = result.split("Booked ")
        response["cancelled"] = False
        response["car"] = result_list[1].split(" Booking ")[0].title()
        response["hotel"] = result_list[2].split(" Booking ")[0].title()
        response["flight"] = result_list[2].split(" Booking ")[1].title()

    return jsonify(response)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.run(host="0.0.0.0", debug=True)
```

The route extracts the username, number of attempts, car, hotel, and flight information from the request JSON.

A `BookVacationInput` object is created with the extracted data, which will be passed to the Workflow.

The Temporal client is obtained using the `get_temporal_client()` function.

The Workflow is executed using `client.execute_workflow()`, passing the input object and other required parameters.
Based on the result of the Workflow execution, a response is prepared and returned.
If the booking process is cancelled, the response indicates this. Otherwise, it provides details about the booked car, hotel, and flight.

> **Start the Client**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Omit.

> Now to start the Client, run the following command in your terminal:

Reviewer 2: Don't I already have my terminal blocked with a worker?

We need to tell people to open a new window, switch to the project dir, and then do the start process.

```bash
python3 run_workflow.py
```

Once the Client is set up, you can start the booking process and see the Saga pattern in action.

## Start the Booking Process

To run the booking process, you can use the following `curl` command to send a `POST` request to the `/book` endpoint.
This request will trigger the Workflow, and you will receive a response with the booking details or a cancellation message.

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3002/book \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{
    "name": "John Doe",
    "attempts": 5,
    "car": "valid-car-id",
    "hotel": "valid-hotel-id",
    "flight": "valid-flight-id"
}'
```

> **Output**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

omit

> The expected output should be a JSON response similar to the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You'll see a JSON response similar to the following:
```

```json
{
  "cancelled": false,
  "car": "Car: valid-car-id",
  "flight": "Flight: valid-flight-id",
  "hotel": "Hotel: valid-hotel-id",
  "result": "Booked car: valid-car-id Booked hotel: valid-hotel-id Booked flight: valid-flight-id",
  "user_id": "john-doe-184942"
}
```

You've successfully initiated and completed your booking process using the Saga pattern with Temporal in Python.
Next, you'll learn how to simulate errors to test the robustness of your implementation.

> ### Simulate an error

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Simulate an error
```

To ensure your implementation can handle failures gracefully, you will simulate a booking failure.
This step will demonstrate how the Saga pattern with Temporal manages to rollback in case of errors.

> To simulate a booking failure, you can use the following `curl` command. T

Reviewer: Is the 'This' written as one word or separated into two? Just checking!

his request includes an invalid hotel booking ID, which will cause the booking process to fail and trigger the rollback process.

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3002/book \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{
    "name": "Jane Smith",
    "attempts": 3,
    "car": "valid-car-id",
    "hotel": "invalid-hotel-id",
    "flight": "valid-flight-id"
}'
```

> The value `invalid` will trigger an exception, causing the booking to rollback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The value `invalid` will trigger an exception, causing the booking to roll back.
```

> **Output**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

omit

> The expected output should be a JSON response similar to the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output in your terminal will be a JSON response similar to the following:
```

```json
{
  "cancelled": true,
  "result": "Voyage cancelled",
  "user_id": "jane-smith-609592"
}
```

> In this case, the booking process was cancelled due to the invalid hotel booking ID.

Reviewer 2: How can we verify that these compensations ran? This looks like a place to open up the temporal web ui and show the event history to show they worked.

The Saga pattern ensures that any completed bookings are rolled back, maintaining a consistent state.

This demonstrates how the Saga pattern with Temporal handles both successful and failing scenarios in the booking process.

> Let's summarize what you've accomplished and discuss potential next steps.

Reviewer: Where's the summary?

Reviewer: Oh is the summary in the conclusion? If so, I think you're missing the next steps!

> Let's summarize what you've accomplished and discuss potential next steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Omit. No need for a transition prior to the conclusion.

## Conclusion

In this guide, you have implemented the Saga pattern using Temporal in Python to handle distributed transactions for booking services.

> By following this guide, you now have a robust system that can gracefully handle failures and ensure data consistency across multiple services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By following this guide, you now have a framework for your applications that can gracefully handle failures and ensure data consistency across multiple services.
```

We don't have a robust system here. We haven't handled some edge cases. We've given folks a starting point though.

> This implementation can be extended to various other use cases where multi-step processes need reliable and scalable orchestration.

Reviewer 2: Passive voice. 
```suggestion
You can extend this implementation to other use cases where multi-step processes need reliable and scalable orchestration.
```

---
id: sagas
sidebar_position: 4
keywords: [Python, temporal, sdk, tutorial, saga, saga pattern, rollback, compensating actions]
tags: [Python, SDK]
last_update:
  date: 2024-03-06
title: Build a trip booking application in Python
description: Implement the Saga Pattern in Python using Temporal.
image: /img/temporal-logo-twitter-card.png
---

When dealing with distributed systems, a failure in one service can lead to a domino effect, compromising the entire transaction.
The Saga pattern offers a solution to this problem by allowing distributed transactions to be broken into smaller, manageable transactions, each with its own compensation logic in case of failure.

The Saga pattern is a design pattern that provides a mechanism to manage long-running transactions and ensure data consistency across multiple services.

> Instead of a single monolithic transaction, the Saga pattern breaks the transaction into smaller, manageable steps (Activities), each step is executed sequentially, and if a step fails, previous steps are undone with a compensating step.

Reviewer 3: It would be good to break this sentence down a little. Perhaps after (Activities)?

> Temporal orchestrates long-running transactions, automatically compensating for failures.

Reviewer 3: Two things here: First, I'm not sure if we're still supposed to use "orchestration" (cc @MasonEgger ) and second, it would be a bonus to expand this to explain in a little more depth. There's a lot happening in this sentence.

The compensation, combined with the guarantee that the method will complete execution, makes this method a reliable, long-running transaction.

> In this guide, you'll build a Flask API that uses Temporal to manage the booking process for cars, hotels, and flights. 

Reviewer 3: nit: With this guide instead of In this guide.

Reviewer 3: Also, maybe a note admonition about what Flask is?

This file will contain the definitions of the Activities needed for the booking process.

Import the necessary modules:

```python
import asyncio
from temporalio import activity
from shared import BookVacationInput
```

The `asyncio` library is used for asynchronous operations.
The `activity` module from the `temporalio` library provides decorators and functions for defining Activities.
The `BookVacationInput` data class will be used to pass input data to the Activities.

Next, define the `book_car`, `book_hotel`, and `book_flight` Activities.
For brevity, these Activities will print a message indicating that they were invoked; however, in a real-world scenario, they would interact with external services to book the vacation.

The function will return a success message if no errors occur.

```python
@activity.defn
async def book_car(input: BookVacationInput) -> str:
    await asyncio.sleep(3)
    if activity.info().attempt < input.attempts:
        activity.heartbeat(
            f"Invoking activity, attempt number {activity.info().attempt}"
        )
        await asyncio.sleep(3)
        raise RuntimeError("Car service is down")

    if "invalid" in input.book_car_id:

>         raise Exception("Invalid car booking, rolling back!")

Reviewer 4: Should not raise `Exception` directly, but something more like `RuntimeError` or something

    print(f"Booking flight: {input.book_flight_id}")
    return f"Booked flight: {input.book_flight_id}"
```

With the main booking Activities in place, it's time to define the compensation Activities.
These undo actions are crucial for maintaining data consistency by rolling back successful steps if a subsequent step fails.

## Define compensation actions

For every action (`book_car`, `book_hotel`, and `book_flight`), you will create a corresponding undo action.
These Activities will log the undo action and return a success message.

```python
@activity.defn
async def undo_book_car(input: BookVacationInput) -> str:
    print(f"Undoing booking of car: {input.book_car_id}")
    return f"Undoing booking of car: {input.book_car_id}"

@activity.defn
async def undo_book_hotel(input: BookVacationInput) -> str:
    print(f"Undoing booking of hotel: {input.book_hotel_id}")
    return f"Undoing booking of hotel: {input.book_hotel_id}"

@activity.defn
async def undo_book_flight(input: BookVacationInput) -> str:
    print(f"Undoing booking of flight: {input.book_flight_id}")
    return f"Undoing booking of flight: {input.book_flight_id}"
```

> For this example, if the number of attempts is less than the allowed number of attempts or if the booking ID is invalid, the Activity will raise exceptions to simulate failures, then run the corresponding undo action.

Reviewer 3: This would benefit from breaking the text down into shorter sentences, but I'm not sure exactly how you'd do it other than maybe The activity checks if the number.... If so, it raises...??

By setting up these compensations, you'll ensure that your system can handle failures gracefully.
Next, you'll focus on defining shared data classes and constants to support your Activities and Workflows.

> ## Define Shared Data Classes and Constants

Reviewer 4: Seems a bit backwards to have this section after the code that depends on it (no prob of course, but putting this first may be easier than asking people to import something that won't exist until later sections)

            compensations.append("undo_book_hotel")
            output += " " + await workflow.execute_activity(
                book_hotel,
                input,
                start_to_close_timeout=timedelta(seconds=10),
                retry_policy=RetryPolicy(
                    non_retryable_error_types=["Exception"],
                ),
            )

            # Attempt to book a flight
            compensations.append("undo_book_flight")
            output += " " + await workflow.execute_activity(
                book_flight,
                input,
                start_to_close_timeout=timedelta(seconds=10),
                retry_policy=RetryPolicy(
                    initial_interval=timedelta(seconds=1),
                    maximum_interval=timedelta(seconds=1),
                    maximum_attempts=input.attempts,
                    non_retryable_error_types=["Exception"],
                ),
            )

            # If all bookings are successful, return the output
            return output
        except Exception:
            # If an error occurs, execute compensations in reverse order
            for compensation in reversed(compensations):

>                 await workflow.execute_activity(

Reviewer 4: You should explain what happens when the undo activity fails to confirm that behavior is intentional

                    compensation,
                    input,
                    start_to_close_timeout=timedelta(seconds=10),
                )

            # Return a message indicating the booking process was cancelled
            return "Voyage cancelled"
```

The `compensations` list keeps track of the actions that need to be undone in case of a failure.
Each compensation action is appended to this list after its corresponding booking action is successfully completed.
The `try` block attempts to execute each booking Activity (`book_car`, `book_hotel`, `book_flight`) in sequence.
Each Activity Execution includes a retry policy to handle transient errors.
If any Activity fails, the `except` block catches the exception and executes the compensation activities in reverse order to undo the previously completed steps.
This ensures the system returns to a consistent state. The retry policy specifies how to handle retries for each Activity, including non-retryable error types and retry intervals.

Having defined the Workflow, you're now ready to set up the Worker that will execute these Workflows and Activities.

## Define the Worker

> To make your booking logic, built with Temporal Workflows and Activities, functional and integrated into your application, you need to set up a Worker.

Reviewer 3: Nit: You could make the Worker more active in this sentence (or sentences). Setting up a Worker lets you integrate... A Worker is built with...

The Worker is responsible for executing the defined Workflows and Activities, ensuring your system can process tasks efficiently and reliably.

Create a new file named `run_worker.py`.

Import the necessary modules, including the `asyncio` library, Temporal `Client`, and `Worker`.
You will also import the Activities declared in the `activities.py` file.

```python
import asyncio

from temporalio.client import Client
from temporalio.worker import Worker

from activities import (
    book_car,
    book_flight,
    book_hotel,
    undo_book_car,
    undo_book_flight,
    undo_book_hotel,
)

> from saga_workflows import BookWorkflow

Reviewer 4: A bit inconsistent calling one of these `activities` and another `saga_workflows`. Would expect `saga_` prefix for both or neither

```bash
# terminal one
python run_worker.py
```

Once the Worker is running, it will be ready to execute Workflows and Activities as tasks are submitted to the specified Task Queue.

Now that the Worker is set up and running, you can set up the Client to initiate the booking process.

## Build the Flask API to book trips

To make your booking logic useful, you need to integrate it into an application.
You will create a Flask endpoint that accepts posts requests, so you can send data to the Workflow to be processed by the Activities.

This setup allows you to interact with the Temporal service and trigger the booking Workflow through HTTP requests.

Create a new file named `run_workflow.py`.

Import the necessary modules, including `uuid`, Flask, and Temporal `Client`.

```python
import uuid

from flask import Flask, jsonify, request
from temporalio.client import Client

from activities import BookVacationInput
from saga_workflows import BookWorkflow
from shared import TASK_QUEUE_NAME
```

The `uuid` module is used to generate a unique ID for each booking.
The `Flask` module is used to set up the Flask API.
The `Client` module is used to connect to the Temporal Service.

> Initialize the Flask app and set up the dependency injection for the Temporal Client.

Reviewer 3: Nit: This seems to be missing a "by...." at the end of the sentence.

```python
app = Flask(__name__)

async def get_temporal_client():
    return await Client.connect("localhost:7233")
```

> Dependency injection for the Temporal Client is used here to ensure it is initialized once and reused, avoiding the resource-intensive process of repeatedly starting it for each booking request.

Reviewer 3: A good place to break down a long sentence is after reused.

> Dependency injection for the Temporal Client is used here to ensure it is initialized once and reused, avoiding the resource-intensive process of repeatedly starting it for each booking request.

Reviewer 4: > Dependency injection for the Temporal Client is used here

Where is it used here? The code in this README calls `get_temporal_client()` directly from the HTTP  handler

To simulate a booking failure, you can use the following `curl` command.
This request includes an invalid hotel booking ID, which will cause the booking process to fail and trigger the rollback process.

```bash
# terminal three
curl -X POST http://localhost:3002/book \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{
    "name": "Jane Smith",
    "attempts": 3,
    "car": "valid-car-id",
    "hotel": "invalid-hotel-id",
    "flight": "valid-flight-id"
}'
```

The value `invalid` will trigger an exception, causing the booking to rollback.

The output in your terminal will be a JSON response similar to the following:

```json
{
  "cancelled": true,
  "result": "Voyage cancelled",
  "user_id": "jane-smith-609592"
}
```

In this case, the booking process was cancelled due to the invalid hotel booking ID.
The Saga pattern ensures that any completed bookings are rolled back, maintaining a consistent state.

To verify the actions that took place during the booking process, you can use the Temporal Web UI.

Open your instance of the Temporal Web UI in your browser and navigate to the **Workflows** tab.

:::note View the Web UI

> If you are using the Temporal CLI, you can visit [localhost:8233/](http://localhost:8233/).

Reviewer 3: Just a note that @MasonEgger told me that the learn site universally uses 8080 instead of 8233

If you are using Temporal Cloud, login to [cloud.temporal.io](https://cloud.temporal.io).

:::

Select the last completed Workflow, and in the **Timeline** view, you can see the Workflow Execution started, an Activity `book_car` completed, but the `book_hotel` Activity failed, retired, and then executed the `undo_book_hotel` and `undo_book_car` Activities.

![View of the timeline actions in the Temporal Web UI](rollback-compenstation.png)

This demonstrates how the Saga pattern with Temporal handles both successful and failing scenarios in the booking process.

## Conclusion

In this guide, you have implemented the Saga pattern using Temporal in Python to handle distributed transactions for booking services.

> By following this guide, you now have a framework for your applications that can gracefully handle failures and ensure data consistency across multiple services.

Reviewer 3: nit: After following

Temporal orchestrates long-running transactions, automatically compensating for failures.
The compensation, combined with the guarantee that the method will complete execution, makes this method a reliable, long-running transaction.

With this guide, you'll build a Flask API that uses Temporal to manage the booking process for cars, hotels, and flights.
This approach ensures that even if one part of the booking fails, the system can gracefully handle the rollback of previous steps, maintaining data consistency.

When you're finished, you'll be able to handle complex distributed transactions with ease and reliability using Temporal.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following:

- Complete the [Hello World](/getting_started/python/hello_world_in_python/index.md) tutorial
- Familiarity with asynchronous programming in Python
- Basic understanding of microservices and distributed systems
- The [Flask framework with async extras](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.3.x/async-await/) installed as a dependency of your project, which you can do with `pip install flask[async]`.

## Create the booking functions

> You will start by creating the Activities for the booking process.

Reviewer 2: I think there's a little bit missing here. If you assume no knowledge of temporal and you land here, you might want to have something here that explains that you're going to use temporal workflows and activities to build this logic. 

```suggestion
You will start by creating the individual components for the booking process. You'll create a Temporal Workflow and a set of Activities. Activities let you interact with services, and Workflows orchestrate the Activities.
```

And I'd expect both workflows and activities to be linked to appropriate encyclopedia pages in docs. I did this in the next.js tutorial. We aren't asking for much, but this one sentence can help explain how the functions map to the core features.
